In the face of this pandemic, we've made dramatic adjustments to our activities all over
the world, including how we meet, how we preach, and even how we associate with one another.
We've even had to make adjustments to the adjustments with changing conditions.
As you know, some of these changes have come very quickly, and we want to commend you
for your obedience to theocratic direction.
We love you all very much and want to keep you safe while helping you to maintain a good
spiritual routine.
As we think about what happens next, it's important to remember that we're not all experiencing
this global crisis the same way.
In some parts of the world, the coronavirus is beginning to spread more quickly.
In other places, outbreaks appear to be somewhat contained for now, and governments are already
easing restrictions.
So how will this affect our theocratic activities?
Well, as things open up in various regions, we're going to be guided by the principle
in Proverbs 14, verse 16, Proverbs 14, and verse 16, where it says,
the wise one is cautious and turns away from evil, but the stupid one is reckless and
overconfident.
In this pandemic, recklessness and overconfidence have literally cost people their lives.
But as the Proverbs says, the wise one is cautious.
So we'll continue to take a cautious approach.
In general, we'll allow more time after governments loosen up a particular restriction before we
resume a theocratic activity.
This will allow the organization to monitor the impact that any lifting of restrictions
has on the spread of the virus.
The coordinators committee of the governing body recently shared some valuable principles
with branch committees around the world to help guide them as governments ease restrictions
related to the spread of COVID-19.
We'd like to share three of those points with you now.
We're confident that obediently holding to these principles will not only save
lives, but glorify Jehovah.
First, out of respect for our creator, we place a high value on life.
Some governments may choose to lift restrictions and reopen businesses in part for economic reasons.
But simply put, our decisions are motivated by love, not money.
So we'll continue to make the safety of our brothers a priority over personal convenience
or preference.
Ecclesiastes 712 says this, Ecclesiastes 712, wisdom is a protection.
Just as money is a protection.
But the advantage of knowledge is this, wisdom preserves the life of its owner.
So in harmony with that, our aim has been and will continue to be to make wise, balanced
decisions that protect lives.
As an example, back in March, we made the decisions who hold the Gilead graduation with
no invited guest present.
That was a big change.
But that one decision protected so many lives here at Bethel in New York and among those
who would have been guests.
Little did we know that just a short time later, New York would become an epicenter of
the pandemic.
We thanked Jehovah for helping us to make that wise decision.
What's the lesson?
Because we place a high value on life, we need to follow direction.
Even if it seems overly cautious or means significant changes in our theocratic activities.
That obedience will help to keep all of us as safe as possible.
In the following video, note how this is proved to be the case for the brothers in South
America, where the outbreak of COVID-19 cases has surged in recent weeks.
We'll hear from brother Anthony Carvalo, who serves on the Brazil branch committee, and
from brother Jaime Tamayo, who serves on the Ecuador branch committee.
Their reports show the benefits of obedience.
Even if at first we don't understand the reasons for the direction.
The outbreak of COVID-19 has already taken tens of thousands of lives in Brazil.
So we've come to appreciate how the early direction we received from the organization
was a real protection.
One example is a sister who is a medical doctor.
She said that when the branch office gave direction to suspend meetings at the Kingdom
Hall, she honestly did not agree.
There weren't any confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the region, and the local government had
not ordered any restrictions.
So she felt the brothers might be exaggerating the threat a bit.
But then she reasoned on how Jehovah has sometimes given his people direction that didn't
make sense from a human standpoint, and so she decided to obey.
Well, shortly after congregation meetings were suspended, the government put restrictions
in place.
COVID-19 began to spread rapidly in the region, and sadly, many have died.
Our sister said that she now sees a direction from the organization was a real protection.
She related.
Seeing how Jehovah is caring for us in a loving and tender way, even on an individual level,
has increased my confidence in him.
While this is just one example of many here in Brazil, we have truly seen the benefits
of obediently following theocratic direction.
There is no question that the early direction we received in Ecuador saved lives.
For instance, one publisher Fabrizio started to have some flu-like symptoms by his doctor
told him that he was the common flu and not COVID-19.
Still, Fabrizio followed instructions from the organization to stay home if you have
any symptoms of illness.
Later, he said, all in a family agreed that it was important to follow these instructions
since they were given to protect us.
During the following weeks, he and his family didn't allow anyone into the house.
Even when relatives came to visit them, they received them outside the house to maintain
a safe distance.
Around the same time, meetings at a kingdom hall were suspended.
Well, several weeks later, Fabrizio tested positive for COVID-19 and saw these three family
members.
Fabrizio's family is so glad that they followed instructions received from the organization.
They maintained distance in protocols, even without a positive diagnosis of COVID-19.
These protected the lives of others, including their extended family and the congregation.
Fabrizio really helped us appreciate the wisdom of suspending the creation meetings when
we did.
Doing so prevented the spread of the disease to others.
What a powerful example of how our obedience to direction is a protection and a blessing.
Our second principle is based on Romans 13, verses 1 and 2.
We must listen to the governmental superior authorities who are permitted by Jehovah to
care for certain functions.
The importance of listening to these authorities is emphasized in verse 2 where it says, whoever
opposes the authority or, according to the footnote, whoever resists the authority has
taken a stand against the arrangement of God.
We know that these authorities exist by God's permission, and it's His will that Christians
be subject to them, as long as what they require doesn't conflict with His law.
News reports are filled with stories of people ignoring the direction from the authorities
or even protesting against it.
But rebelling against secular authorities constitutes a rebellion against God.
We loved Jehovah, so we respect the authorities.
We also listen to the authorities because we love our neighbors, and we're concerned
with how they feel about health and safety.
We know that many people out of concern for possible infection are anxious about interacting
with others.
Following safety guidelines from the authorities and adjusting our activities shows that
we really care about our neighbors.
And this can even contribute to a good witness being given.
Here's an example of that.
In one European country, local officials visited our branch office to check on what we were
doing to slow the spread of the virus.
When the officials learned that we were holding all our meetings by video conference and had
already been locked down for over two weeks, they were amazed.
One of them asked, did you know beforehand that all of this would happen?
The brothers explained that we're a global organization that puts a high value on human
life, so we were following developments on an international level.
We've enabled the brothers to take the steps needed to keep everyone as safe as possible,
even ahead of guidelines from the national and local governments.
The officials were impressed.
It doesn't that beautifully illustrate how our obedience reflects favorably on our organization
and our God.
It brings to mind the thought at 1 Peter 212.
When people become eyewitnesses of our fine conduct, it brings glory to Jehovah.
The third principle we want to share is this, do not develop a casual attitude.
As this situation stretches on month after month, it can be hard to stay vigilant.
We might be inclined to relax, lower our guard, especially as certain restrictions are removed.
However, Proverbs 22 reminds us, the shrewd one sees the danger and conceals himself, but
the inexperience keeps right on going and suffer the consequences.
So we need to remain cautious and be ready for additional outbreaks.
Many experts say we may be dealing with the spread of this virus for some time until
the successful treatments and vaccinations become widely available, possibly in 2021 or
beyond.
This means that the adjusted arrangements we have in place for congregation meetings,
assemblies, and the field ministry may need to continue for some time.
When we do begin returning to our normal arrangements, it will be a gradual process, in accord with
what we read in Proverbs 14 and verse 15.
The naïve person believes every word, but the shrewd one ponders each step.
You can be assured that we will prayerfully ponder each step and adjust our meeting and
service arrangements gradually.
And of course, we'll monitor this situation closely and reinstate certain restrictions
if additional outbreaks occur.
So as you face the days ahead, keep in mind the three principles we've talked about.
One, place a high value on life.
Two, listen to the authorities.
And three, guard against developing a casual attitude.
We know that this pandemic has hit some of you very hard.
You've lost jobs and income.
You young ones have had your schooling interrupted and been able to be with your friends.
And tragically, a number of you have lost family members and friends in death.
Some of you may feel like Joe, who faced one tragedy after another.
It pains our hearts to see what you're going through.
And we're praying for you every day.
It's been a difficult time.
Yet in many ways, all of this has been training for the Great Tribulation ahead.
What we're learning now about how to adapt our spiritual routines to support one another
and to be obedient to direction is building us up and equipping us for even bigger challenges
in the future.
It's been very encouraging to hear how our brothers around the world are helping one another
during this unique time in human history.
Our actions are bringing honor and praise to Jehovah.
Our brothers and sisters from Brazil and Ecuador send you their warm greetings.
And on behalf of the governing body, we thank you for all you're doing, even under these
difficult circumstances.
Please know that we love you very much.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.